So first thing is let's install
Next.js and let's get started.
So like I said, this is from scratch,
there's no repo.
We're just gonna do this
right from nothing.
So I'm just gonna go in here and
I'm gonna make a new folder and
I'm gonna do just that.
So, oop, this thing just decided
to go over here, there we go.
And the best way to do
this is just to say npx,
make this a little bigger,
npx create-next-app.
And actually I have the copy and
paste here, just create-next-app@latest.
And you want to pass this
--experimental-app flag.
This is so we can use the app
directory that Next.js 13 has in beta.
And that enables us to get some of
the new features like server components,
client components, caching,
all the really cool stuff that's covered
in the V1 intro of the Next.js course.
So be sure to do that.
Hit Enter.
Call it whatever you want.
I'm gonna call it project app.
I'm using TypeScripts.
You don't have to use TypeScripts
if you don't want to.
I do recommend using ESLints and
let it do its job.
So while that's installing, we can just
kinda go through these dependencies here
that are unrelated to Next.js
that we also have to install.
This is a full stack app,
we're gonna need some more dependencies.
So here they are.
If you look at the notes here, I put them
here in the JSON file because I think it's
just simple just to put this in your
package JSON and hit npm-install than it
is to type it all out in the terminal
in the npm-install with all the names.
So what you can do is,
you can see that this is done installing.
We're going to open it up in VS Code,
Here.
Oops, I guess I saw cd into it.
Here we go.
And go to our package.json.
Here in our dependencies,
here's everything that was installed.
And what I'm gonna do now is
I'm just going to take all
these other dependencies that
are unrelated to Next.js.
And I'm just going to put them in our
dependencies, and I'll probably have some
duplicates, and if you have duplicates,
you can delete them, it's totally fine.
And I'm gonna save that.
All right, so
we need to install some other dependencies
as well in addition to the Next.js stuff.
So if you copy the dependencies
that I have in the notes,
you can just add them to your
dependencies object, like so.
I don't have extra object here.
Yeah, so you can just add them here,
and then all you have to do is just do
an npm-install like that and
it'll install them.
So I think this is way quicker if you
already have it versus just typing them
all in a CLI like that So I got those.
And I believe we have some dev
dependencies we need to install.
So we got some dev dependencies,
we'll copy those,
And we'll go back to the code here.
And you're gonna say devDependencies and
paste those in.
And we're gonna go through all of these,
why we need them, what they do, but for
now, we're just getting installed.
You just run np- install again.
Yes?
>> Do you know why the create-next-app
doesn't put TypeScript and
ESLint and whatnot in dev dependencies?
>> That's a good question.
So I think the whole dev
dependencies versus dependencies
subject is not as
important as it used to be.
I think it was really important
back when Node was on Heroku and
they had all these build packs and
all this stuff, right?
And there was a difference between
installing your dev dependencies and
not your dev dependencies.
But I think now the way that platforms
deploy your applications, like a platform
like Vercel or Netlify, they're just gonna
install everything, because you have to.
There's so much building that needs to
go on, so they're just so used to that.
So I think for the most part, unless
you're making a library that's gonna be
on npm, it doesn't really matter if
it's in-depth dependencies or not.
Because it's probably gonna get installed
on every environment that it's on,
whether it's on your teammate's computer
or if it's been deployed somewhere.
So it could be that, it could be that
Next.js is where application framework, so
everything is a dependency and
nothing's a dev dependency,
versus a library where you
might have dev dependencies.
Good question.
Okay, and then just to walk through,
just to get you back up to speed and
familiar with Next.js,
we have the scripts here.
The def script is what we run
to start our server locally.
The build script is what a platform
would run when they deploy it and start,
it's what happens in production.
And lint does exactly what it sounds like,
it lints.
Well, most of you is using the dev here
until we get to deployment much later on
where we're gonna deploy.
But for now,
we're just gonna be doing Next.dev.
And just a quick tour around Next.js here,
so we have this new app directory,
which is now the pages directory or
what the pages directory used to be,
as far as like making pages.
We also still have the pages directory
here, but it's only used for
API routes now, no longer used for
actual pages on the site.
And then everything else
is pretty much the same.
Only thing you might find
different here in the next config.
You'll see experimentalapp.true.
That's gonna be past that flag,
so it added it for us.
This is so we can actually use the app
directory inside of Next.js V13.
Wthout this, we won't be able to use it.
Cool, any questions on this?
No, and if you want just to check
your sanity, you can just run
npm run dev, Which I have so
many things running.
I need to stop some things.
And you can go here.
You should see this if you
installed everything right, so.
But don't worry, we're going to get rid
of this, even though it looks nice.
Okay, let's keep it moving.
So let's talk about all
the folders that we're gonna make.
And again, yes,
some of this is gonna be convention,
but the other part is gonna
be just my thoughts and
my opinions on how I'll like
to organize my application.
So there's really no right or wrong here.
It's just kinda how I like to do things.
So the first thing is,
we talked about the app directory, right?
And this is where all pages go, pretty
much everything related to pages and
layouts and loading states and
error states,
everything the app directory enables.
But then we also have the assets folder.
So if we go here, there isn't one, because
Next.js doesn't have a convention for
something called assets.
That is something that I like to have,
so I'm gonna make a new folder here and
I'm gonna call it assets.
And my icons,
I get this really cool icon here.
Actually, I think the zoom level is not
right, I'm gonna change the zoom level.
There we go.
So assets is basically where I'm just
gonna put images, things like that,
you can put them there.
Components, this is also not
a conventional folder that Next.js cares
about.
It's just where I put
my non-page components.
Let's call it components.
Some people will have a components folder
where they have more complicated bigger
components, not yet pages, but then they
have a UI folder where it's these buttons,
inputs, these little bitty components
that you'll find in component lib.
This just too noisy for me, I'm gonna
put everything in a components folder.
So that's kinda my vibe.
It's not right, it's not wrong, it's just,
I don't like organizing all that stuff.
But I can see if you were a huge team or
a huge code base, you would do that.
Another folder I like to use is lib.
Lib is just basically all my non-JSX,
all my non-React code that I wanna use.
So these are utility functions
like hashing passwords for
the database,
signing JSON web tokens, API file for
us to talk to our API and
just abstracts that away.
So everything that's non related to
JSX and React goes in the lib folder.
It's like our own personal module folder.
We still have pages.
Again, pages is mostly just
gonna be used for API.
It's not really gonna be used for
anything else, but it's here.
We will be making API routes in this
course, so we will be using it.
It id a full stack course, so
you can't really go far without making API
at least when it comes to mutating things.
You can go for now just from
getting stuff, but mutating,, no.
And then the last one I
like to have is styles.
So styles is exactly what it sounds like.
It's where I put most of my styles.
In this course,
we don't really have a lot of styles
cuz we're gonna be using Tailwind.
Because if we made our own custom styles,
I mean 90% of the course will
just be us writing CSS, and
no, I don't wanna do that.
Even though Tailwind has a lot of classes,
so it still feels like you're writing
a lot, at least in my opinion, but
I'm not a Tailwind hater anymore.
I've come to terms with it that it's good,
so let's do a lot of classes.
This isn't right or wrong, this is
just how I like to organize my app.
I pretty much do it for every single app.